# Lecture 8 Problems

Consider the following geometric properties. The first several questions ask which of them are preserved by a given class of geometric transformations. For each question, give a list of letters corresponding to which properties are preserved (i.e., left unchanged) by the given class of geometric transformations.

**Note:** Feel free to use [this online demo](https://iis.uibk.ac.at/public/piater/courses/demos/homography/homography.xhtml) to gain intuition and try things out as you work through these, keeping in mind that affine transformations are only those where the last row remains $\begin{bmatrix}0 & 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}$. 

1. Which are preserved under translation?
2. Which are preserved under affine transformations?
3. Which are preserved under projective transformations?

A. Line straightness

B. Line lengths

C. Ratios of lengths along a line

D. Parallelism of lines

E. Angles

F. Locations of points

G. Location of the origin

In the next two problems, we'll show that a homography has only 8 degrees of freedom. In other words, for any homography $H$ that is not all zeros, there is a homography $H' = H / h_{33}$​ that has the same effect on homogeneous coordinates.

4. Let  $
   H = \begin{bmatrix}
   a & b & c \\
   d & e & f \\
   g & h & k \\
   \end{bmatrix}$ and $\mathbf{x} = \begin{bmatrix}x\\ y \\ 1\end{bmatrix}$. Compute  $H\mathbf{x}$​ and normalize the resulting homogeneous point.
5. Compute $\frac{1}{k}H\mathbf{x}$ and normalize the resulting homogeneous point.
6. If 4 and 5 came out the same, then we've proved that $H \approx \frac{1}{k}H$, which implies that homographies, like homogeneous points, are equivalent up to normalization, making the number of degrees of freedom 8 intstead of 9. Would the this proof change if we'd changed $\mathbf{x}$'s third coordinate from 1 to $w$?
