# Lecture 3 Problems - Solutions

1. The filter is flipped before convolution, so the positive will be to the right and negative to the left, resulting in a measurement of change as $x$ increases.

   We'd need to divide the second one's entries by 2 to account for the 2-pixel distance across which the difference is being measured.

   The first is narrower and gives a more "instantaneous" estimate, but its result is shifted by half a pixel. The second is centered so it's a true estimate of the slope at the input pixel, but looks over a larger window and thus may get things more wrong when there is pixel-for-pixel detail.

2. 
    $$
    \begin{bmatrix}
         2 & 0 & -2\\
         4 & 0 & -4\\
         2 & 0 & -2
       \end{bmatrix}
    $$

    or scaled by 1/2 if using repeat padding.

3. Blurring erases high-frequency content, while leaving lower frequencies alone. Sharpening accentuates (scales up) the high-frequency content, leaving lower frequencies alone. Sharpening is not the inverse of blurring because you cannot recover the high-frequencies that were lost in the blurring process by sharpening. If you've removed all the high freqeuncy content, scaling up high frequencies will have no effect.

4. The high and low frequencies have been left alone, while the middle frequencies have been attenuated.

5. The image is a row of alternating black/white (or light/dark) pixels. The frequency is 0.5.

6. The image can be any constant color; the frequency is 0.

7. It would look like the gray midpoint between the black color and the white color.

8. You could use a bank of larger filters, or you could run it on a Gaussian pyramid.
